The toqito software package is a suite of Python tools that can be used when
studying various concepts in quantum information. The inspiration for this
package is heavily influenced by the QETLAB package in MATLAB. Many of the
functions found in toqito are direct Python ports of those functions. While the
QETLAB package is a fantastic piece of software, it requires a MATLAB license
for use, and therefore excludes those who are not able to afford this license.

While there is a large set of software tools for concepts involving topics like
circuit synthesis or simulation, there is far less software for studying topics
that arise more in the theory of quantum information. The toqito package
includes many of the fundamental operations that one desires to apply to a
quantum state (partial trace, partial transpose, etc.) and also has support for
applying various superoperators and channels. Certain problems that involve the
use of convex optimization to solve such as state distinguishability make use
of the cvxpy package.

Support for common operations and tools to study nonlocal games are also
intended to be provided. This would involve calculating the classical, quantum,
and non-signaling values of specific games using approximation tools such as
the NPA hierarchy which can be used to bound the value of Bell inequalities and
by proxy the values of nonlocal games. Various tools in operator theory and
matrix analysis that often arise in the study of quantum information will also
be provided. These include the addition of various well-known maps (Choi map,
realignment map, etc.) as well as various classes of matrices and quantum
states that often arise in the study of quantum information. The toqito package
will also include functions for studying other concepts in quantum information,
including entanglement, unextendible product bases, and other such topics. 

Many software packages that exist in the quantum information space often have
language that is very specific to physics. For instance, the Python package
qutip refers to the standard basis as Fock states. Naming conventions such as
these can be confusing and misleading for individuals without a proper physics
background. The intent of this software package is geared towards individuals
with either a math background or a computer science background and towards
those individuals who wish to study certain features in quantum information.

During my time as a PhD student, I would often read various papers that would
either not release software or release software that was written by an
researcher who is not a specialist in writing software. As a result, the
quality and generalizability of the code (if any) provided was not ideal. The
toqito package will be a professionally written software package in Python with
high-testing coverage, proper commenting and style (enforced by a linter),
along with an automated CI/CD system to automate the build process and
deliverable content to individuals who wish to use the software.
